[Docs] Update the runtime page (#56)
PennyLaneAI/catalyst: runtime/README.rst

Catalyst Runtime
################

The Catalyst Runtime is a C++ QIR runtime that enables the execution of Catalyst-compiled
quantum programs, and is currently backed by state-vector simulators
`PennyLane-Lightning <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane-lightning>`_
and `Pennylane-Lightning-Kokkos <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane-lightning-kokkos>`_.

The runtime employs the ``QuantumDevice`` public API that enables the extension of backend quantum devices.

> This API accommodates two collections of abstract methods as follows:

Reviewer: @maliasadi say I am interested in using this to create a runtime for my own device. Where can I read the `QuantumDevice`API documentation?

Author: Good point @josh146! We already generate the API, and here, I added a link to the `QuantumDevice` doc page. Let me know if this isn't sufficient.

> public API that enables the extension of backend quantum devices. This API accommodates two collections of abstract methods as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public interface to support an extensible list of backend devices. This interface comprises two collections of abstract methods as follows:
```

`RuntimeCAPI.h <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/include/RuntimeCAPI.h>`_.

Contents
========

The directory is structured as follows:

- `include <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/include>`_:
    This contains the public header files of the runtime including the ``QuantumDevice`` API
    for backend quantum devices and the runtime CAPI.

- `extensions <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/extensions>`_:
    A collection of extensions for backend simulators to fit into the
    `QIR programming model <https://github.com/qir-alliance/qir-spec/blob/main/specification/v0.1/4_Quantum_Runtime.md#qubits>`_.
    The `StateVectorDynamicCPU <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/extensions/StateVectorDynamicCPU.hpp>`_
    class extends the state-vector class of `Pennylane-Lightning <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane-lightning>`_ providing
    dynamic allocation and deallocation of qubits.

- `lib <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/lib>`_:
    The core modules of the runtime are structured into ``lib/capi`` and ``lib/backend``.

>     `lib/capi <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/lib/capi>`_  contains the source of the bridge between

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `lib/capi <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/lib/capi>`_  implements the bridge between
```

>     QIR instructions in LLVM-IR and C++ backends. `lib/backend <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/lib/backend>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    QIR instructions in LLVM-IR and C++ device backends. `lib/backend <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/lib/backend>`_
```

    contains implementations of the ``QuantumDevice`` API for backend simulators.

- `tests <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/catalyst/tree/main/runtime/tests>`_:
    A collection of C++ tests for modules and methods in the runtime.

Backend Devices
===============

> A new device can be added to the list of supported ones in the runtime by implementing the quantum device API.

Reviewer 2: As this section doesn't yet show how to integrate a new device into the runtime:
```suggestion
New device backends for the runtime can be realized by implementing the quantum device interface.
```

> The following table shows the runtime official backend devices along with supported features:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table shows the available devices along with supported features:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 25 25 25
   :header-rows: 0

   * - **Features**
     - **PennyLane-Lightning**
     - **PennyLane-Lightning-Kokkos**
   * - Qubit Management
     - Dynamic allocation/deallocation
     - Static allocation/deallocation
   * - Gate Operations
     - `Lightning operations <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane-lightning/blob/master/pennylane_lightning/src/gates/GateOperation.hpp>`_
     - `Lightning operations <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane-lightning/blob/master/pennylane_lightning/src/gates/GateOperation.hpp>`_
   * - Quantum Observables
     - ``Identity``, ``PauliX``, ``PauliY``, ``PauliZ``, ``Hadamard``, ``Hermitian``, ``Hamiltonian``, and Tensor Product of Observables
     - ``Identity``, ``PauliX``, ``PauliY``, ``PauliZ``, ``Hadamard``, ``Hermitian``, ``Hamiltonian``, and Tensor Product of Observables
   * - Expectation Value

>      - All observables; Not supported finite-shots
>      - All observables; Not supported finite-shots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - All observables; Finite-shots not supported
     - All observables; Finite-shots not supported
```

>      - Basic observables (``Identity``, ``PauliX``, ``PauliY``, ``PauliZ``, ``Hadamard``, ``Hermitian``)

Author: ```suggestion
     - All observables
```

   * - Variance
     - ``Identity``, ``PauliX``, ``PauliY``, ``PauliZ``
     - Not supported

>    * - Finite Shots (``Sample``)

Reviewer 2: I think this category should just be called "sampling", as sampling can only ever be finite.
Another category for finite shots / shot noise in reference to the computation of expectation values / variances / probabilities should be added to indicate that the backends do not support the latter.

```suggestion
   * - Sampling
```

Author: Fair points! I'll update the list.

>      - Only for ``Identity``, ``PauliX``, ``PauliY``, ``PauliZ``, and ``Hadamard``; Not supported finite-shots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - Only for ``Identity``, ``PauliX``, ``PauliY``, ``PauliZ``, and ``Hadamard``; Finite-shots not supported
```

>      - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubits; Not supported finite-shots
>      - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubits; Not supported finite-shots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubits; Finite-shots not supported
     - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubits; Finite-shots not supported
```

   * - Sampling
     - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubits
     - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubits
   * - Mid-Circuit Measurement
     - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubit
     - Only for the computational basis on the supplied qubit
   * - Gradient

>      - The Adjoint-Jacobian method supporting all observables
>      - The Adjoint-Jacobian method supporting all observables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - The Adjoint-Jacobian method for expectation values on all observables
     - The Adjoint-Jacobian method for expectation values on all observables
```

Requirements
============

> To build the runtime from source, it is required to have an up to date version of a C/C++ compiler such as gcc, clang, or MSVC

Reviewer 2: Until we have Windows support it might be confusing to list MSVC
```suggestion
To build the runtime from source, it is required to have an up to date version of a C/C++ compiler such as gcc or clang
```
